# 2022.10.19

This page contains the changes included in the next release.

## Legend

Changes with marker **very low** and such are technically breaking changes. However, they are
not major modifications and in most cases they should not break anything. Notes after the marker
are the places worth to check. If you extended them you may have to apply the change to your own class also.

## Core

**added**

- `KtorSettingsBo.engine` Ktor engine setting. Passed to ktor embeddedServer. Default is "io.ktor.server.netty.Netty"
- `ZK_KTOR_ENGINE` environment variable to set KtorSettingsBo.engine
- `zkDefaultTableParameters` to set the table's default parameters such as `add`, `export`, `search`, `counter`, `exportFiltered`, `exportHeaders`, `fixHeaderHeight`, `fixRowHeight`

**changed**

- `ZkTable.exportfileName` format changed, the new format is: `<localised name of the class (only word characters)>_<date time of download>.csv`. If there is no class name, it contains the word content instead.

## Lib: Accounts

**added**

- `RoleExposedTable` unique index on name column
- `PermissionExposedTable` unique index on name column

## Lib: I18N

**added**

- `LocaleExposedTableGen` unique index on name column
- `TranslationExposedTableGen` multi unique index on locale and key columns
- `TranslationCrud` new columns in TranslationTable: id and locale
- `LocalesByStatus` query to query the available locales
- `TranslationMap` query to query all translations, it returns a map, where the key is the locale, and the value is a map of the key value pairs

**changed**

- `TranslationBl` make `translationsByLocale` function public