# 2021.5.18-SNAPSHOT

## Overview

* Add the locale to frontend URLs.
* SEO friendly (`a` tag) links in the sidebar, load sidebar from markdown.
* Buttons may use `a` tag and have an url to open  
* Markdown view improvements.
* Style, layout and theme improvements.
* Documentation:
    * fix broken links,
    * new: Routing, Elements, SideBar, Pages, Introduction
    * major update: Css.
* ZkApplication refactor, themes and styles are independent of the application.
* Improve responsive design of the default layout.
* Server descriptor:
    * Session now contains the server descriptor.
    * Server descriptor is loaded from a settings file.
    * Server descriptor settings file is updated by gradle build with project version (for site).
* Dark theme for table.
* Normalized keys in string store.
* Kod-o-mat.

## Breaking changes

* change `ZkApplication` from object to class, `application` late init variable
* AccountPublicDto.locale is now mandatory
* AccountPrivateDto.locale is now mandatory
* locale is present in the URL
* remove type parameter of class from ZkCssStyleSheet
* move `theme`, `initTheme` from `application` to `resources/theme.kt`

## Upgrade steps

### Browser

* application
  * change `t(key)` to `stringStore[key]`, import
  * change `ZkApplication.executor` to `executor`, import
  * change `ZkApplication.theme` to `theme`, import
  * change `ZkApplication.hasRole` to `hasRole`, import
  * change `ZkApplication.back()` to `application.back()`, import
* css change `ZkPage(cssClass =` to `ZkPage(css = )`
  change `ZkCssStyleSheet<ZkTheme>` to `ZkCssStyleSheet`
  change `this.classList += ` to `+`
  change `this.className += ` to `!`
* theme change `ZkTheme.blockBorder` to `ZkTheme.fixBorder`
* appTitle change `appTitle` to `setAppTitle`
* change manual routing to target based: 
  * `super.onNavStateChange(ZkNavState(Login.viewName, ""))` to `super.onNavStateChange(ZkNavState(Login))`

#### template/app/etc

add [zakadabar.server.description.yaml](../../../site/template/app/etc/zakadabar.server.description.yaml) to `template/app/etc`

#### build.gradle.kts

Add these lines to `copyAppStruct` task:

```kotlin
filter { line: String ->
    line.replace("@version@", "${project.version}")
}
```

#### SQL

Execute this to set locale **before** starting the upgraded server.

```sql
update accounts set locale = 'en';
alter table accounts alter column locale set not null;
```

## Common

* `ServerDescriptionDto.defaultLocale` property
* `SessionDto.serverDesciption` property
* AccountPublicDto.locale is now mandatory
* AccountPrivateDto.locale is now mandatory

## Backend

* `zakadabar.server.description` setting is now mandatory

## Frontend

### Buttons

* `ZkIconButton` is now deprecated, use `ZkButton` instead
* rename convenience functions from buttonXX to XXbutton
* buttons now have a tabIndex parameter to make them focusable

### Layout

* spanned header support for `ZkDefaultLayout`, see [Layout](../guides/browser/structure/Layout.md#Spanning-the-Header)

### Modals

* Change opacity of overlay background from 0.2 to 0.5 to make the modal more distinct.

### Markdown

* view has limited width
* toc is next to the view on large screens
* internal markdown links use `changeNavState` instead of reloading the page

### Notes

* rename convenience functions from noteXX to XXnote

### Toasts

* rename convenience functions from toastXX to XXtoast

### ZkApplication

* convert from object to class
* introduce `application` late init variable
* `locale` property that stores the current locale
* `changeNavState` shorthands

### ZkAppTitleProvider

* interface to implement by elements that can set the app title
* default setAppTitleBar function
* rename fields to reflect their use better

### ZkCssStyleSheet

* remove type parameter of class
* rework initialization to allow modifications by the theme
* add `shortNames` to use `zks344` like class names

### ZkElement

* `innerHtml`, `innerText`, `className`, `style` helpers now use `buildElement` instead of `element`
* `gridRow`, `gridColumn` extension functions for `HTMLElement`

### ZkSideBar

* SEO friendly groups and items, when url is passed to constructor uses "a" tag
* constructors to add items from a ZkTarget, automatic name resolution, automatic url resolution.
* load the sidebar from a markdown file with MarkdownNav.

### ZkStringStore

* `getNormalized` function to look up with normalized keys
* `normalizedKeyMap` to assign the values to normalized keys

### ZkTabContainer

* builder function as constructor parameter

## Bug Fixes

* fix closed sidebar icon positioning
 