## [SNAPSHOT]

## Major Improvements

* Kotlin 1.5.0 and [Dependency Upgrades](#Dependency-Upgrades)
* [New Terminology](#New-Terminology)
* [Plug And Play](../guides/plug-and-play/Introduction.md)
* changelog follows [keep a changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/) guidelines
* name change: Kod-o-mat to Bender

## New Terminology

In this release we defined and documented the terminology the stack uses.
This means that naming conventions changed and we refactored some
modules to follow the new terminology. A few steps needed to upgrade,
see details below.

See [Introduction](../guides/Introduction.md) for the details of terminology.

### Migration

The migration is simple, it consists mostly of search and replace steps with
some final touches.

Use IDEAs `Replace in Files` function to perform the changes below. After these
changes you probably have to fix:

* multiple imports of `EntityId`: delete surplus
* the compiler doesn't recognize `get` on a Dao: re-import

**Activate `Preserve Case` for the best results.**

| From | To |
| --- | --- |
| `import zakadabar.stack.data.record` | `import zakadabar.stack.data.entity` |
| `getDtoNamespace` | `getBoNamespace` |
| `dtoNamespace` | `boNamespace` |
| `DtoSchema` | `BoSchema` |
| `EmptyRecordId` | `EntityId` |
| `StringRecordId` | `EntityId` |
| `LongRecordId` | `EntityId` |
| `RecordId` | `EntityId` | 
| `RecordDto` | `EnityBo` |
| `QueryDto` | `QueryBo` |
| `ActionDto` | `ActionBo` |
| `DtoBase` | `BaseBo` |
| `RecordComm` | `EntityComm` |

SQL column name change on BLOB tables:

```
alter table <TABLE_NAME>
   rename column data_record to entity_id;
```

## Dependency Upgrades

* Kotlin 1.5.0
* Ktor 1.4.3, datetime 0.2.0, serialization 1.2.1
  * We will upgrade to the latest Ktor and serialization when
    * [KT-46598](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-46598) is solved, and
    * Ktor uses a serialization version 1.2.1+
* The Stack compiles with KJS IR backend (not on master).
  *  We'll provide IR modules when Ktor is on 1.5.0+ (see above).
* Markdown 0.2.3 + patch from Ajalt to work with Kotlin 1.5.0
* Js file size optimization, `site` is down to 425kb compressed, 370 when on IR
  * Kotlin/JS multi-module is development focus

## Details

### Added

- cache control: all API GET responses (except BLOB content) have "Cache-Control: no-cache,no-store" header, see [Cache Control]()
- [ZkThemeRotate](/src/jsMain/kotlin/zakadabar/stack/frontend/builtin/theme/ZkThemeRotate.kt) element
- [Introduction: Software Model](/doc/guides/Introduction.md)

### Changed

- browser: remove ktor-client dependency (no real need for it, major size reduction of the .js file)
- site: rotate between light, dark and green/blue themes
- sidebar: default layout sidebar container: hide scrollbar when mouse is not over, thinner scrollbar
- markdown: content max width is 600, TOC is to the very right
- kod-o-mat: renamed to Bender

### Deprecated

- `DarkLightMode`: replace with `ZkThemeRotate`

### Removed

- `tags` from `ServerDescriptionDto`

### Fixed

- Issue 27 - Login timeout mechanics applied to static resources like `index.html`
- browser: optional record select field marked mandatory

